# Documentation

This directory of the Django project contains code that will be used throughout all of the apps (currently: login_and_reg, list_builder, and elimination_room).

---

## Settings

### **base.py**
Settings consists of the ```base.py``` file, which contains the base settings for the project, and will be the default if no settings modules are specified. The default base settings are the simplest for the project to work, ***however***, for security, ```DEBUG``` is set to ```False```. (In case of improper settings configuration, you wouldn't want the project defaulting to debug mode on a public server.) Out of DEBUG mode, Django will not handle serving static files itself, and allowed hosts will need to be specified explicitly.

The ```dotenv``` package is used to load environment variables, however it won't overwrite any variables already set. This means that if the variables are set through the environment—as they are when running with Docker compose—the variables piped in from the ```.env``` file specified in the docker compose file will take precedence over any ```.env``` file inside the project itself.

As also discussed [here](/README.md/#1-the-env-file), the .env file can set these variables:
 - ```SECRET_KEY``` The secret key that Django uses for cryptographic signing. This can be generated by running:
    ```
    python -c "from django.core.management.utils import get_random_secret_key; print(get_random_secret_key())"
    ```
- ```ALLOWED_HOSTS``` A comma separated list of hosts that are allowed to access the site. This should include the domain name of the site, and any subdomains that will be used. (Dev/debug mode will default to localhost if empty.)

```DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE``` Django settings can be split into modules. The available options for MovieMatch are [movie_match.settings.dev](#devpy)
and [movie_match.settings.prod](#prodpy).

---

- ```REDIS_HOST_NAME``` The Redis server host (container name if using Docker).
- ```REDIS_HOST_PORT``` The port that the Redis server is accessible on.

---

- ```DATABASE_ENGINE``` The database being used (```sqlite3``` or ``postgresql``). If neither is selected, the project will throw an ImproperlyConfigured error.

**SQLite** should only be used for testing and requires no further configuration. If using **PostgreSQL**, the following additional variables are also required:
- ```POSTGRES_DB``` The database name.
- ```POSTGRES_USER``` The database user.
- ```POSTGRES_PASSWORD``` The database password.
- ```POSTGRES_HOST``` The database host (container name if using Docker).
- ```POSTGRES_PORT``` The port that the databse is accessible on.

- ```CONTAINER_STATIC_DIRECTORY``` The directory where the static files are collected. Defaults to **staticfiles/**

---

### **dev.py**
```DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=movie_match.settings.dev```

The development settings module sets the single setting of ```DEBUG = True```, allowing Django to serve static files from its development server and setting allowed hosts to ```localhost```.

### **prod.py**
```DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=movie_match.settings.prod```

The production settings module runs with ```DEBUG = False```. Because of this, ```ALLOWED_HOSTS``` must be set and a method of serving the static files used. The module also includes settings that enforce HTTPS, so the user must configure security certificates, and set up their server appropriately.

---

## Static
The static directory containes all of the static files for the project that are common to multiple apps. This includes some overarching CSS, the favicons, images, and most importantly Javascript files.

The javascript files include prepping the csrf token, login submission, dynamic element constructors, list save function, and various modals that recur throughout the project.

## Templates

The templates include HTML templates that are used throughout the apps. These include the base template, which is extended by all other templates, and and consists of the navbars, and *any* base static files that need to be loaded such as the css and aforementioned JS files.

Also included is the html for both the movie_info_modal and save_modal that can be called from any app.

The form_template will dynamically generate forms from Django form classes, complete with tooltips, error handling, and styling. Currently used for registration and profile forms.